\section{Abstract}\label{abstract}

Many cost-efficient computational methods have been developed over the
years to analyze various aspects of ship hydrodynamics such as:
resistance, propulsion and seakeeping. Getting the best possible
accuracy with the lowest possible computational cost is an important
factor in a ship's early design stage. Potential flow-based analysis
partly presents such a solution for seakeeping, with good accuracy for
heave and pitch, but not for roll where the roll damping contains both
inviscid and viscous effects. Roll motion is, however, often a critical
degree of freedom that needs to be analyzed since large roll motions can
result in cargo shifting or even capsizing. The viscous part of roll
damping can be assessed with high accuracy by means of experimental
model tests or URANS calculations, but these are generally too expensive
in the early design stage of ships. Many semi-empirical formulas to
determine viscous damping were therefore developed during the 1970s,
where Ikeda's method is one of the most widely used. The viscous damping
from this method is normally combined with inviscid roll damping from
strip theory. With today's computational power, more advanced potential
flow methods can be used in the seakeeping analysis to enhance the
accuracy in the predictions, but still at relatively low computational
cost. This paper investigates the feasibility of combining 3D unsteady
fully nonlinear potential flow (FNPF) theory solved by means of a
Boundary Element Method (BEM) together with the viscous contributions
from Ikeda's method. The approach of substituting the inviscid part from
Ikeda's method using strip theory with FNPF is investigated by
conducting roll decay simulations. The results estimated by the proposed
approach are compared with both the classical strip theory approach and
roll decay model tests. It is found that potential improvements to the
modelling of roll damping can be achieved by introducing FNPF analysis
in Ikeda's method.

    