\section{Introduction}\label{introduction}

The motions of a ship in a seaway can be predicted with good accuracy
using inviscous potential flow calculations for pitch and heave motions
at very low computational costs \cite{7505983/FB64RGPF}. This is far
cheaper than doing for instance model tests or URANS calculations.
Potential flow calculations can therfore be used extensively during the
early design stage of ships. The roll motions will however not be very
realistic with these methods, due to high influenced from viscous roll
damping. This is very unfortunate as the roll motions is indeed a very
important response. The impact of roll motions can be seen from the APL
China casualty in 1998, where a post-Panamax C11 class container ship
lost almost a third of its containers. Also newer ships as the ONE APUS
a 14,052 TEU containership built in 2019 lost more than 1000 containers
during heavy roll motions.

A lot of experimental research was conducted during the 1970s and 80s to
separate the inviscid and viscous roll damping. Semi empirical formulas
were developed to estimate the viscous parts, to be used together with
the potential flow methods \cite{7505983/937PN5DT}. The older linear
methods can today be replaced by more advanced nonlinear potential flow
methods. These newer methods still need some injection of semi empirical
viscous damping to give a fair representation of the roll motions. But
is the separation of damping components still valid, considering that
these older semi empirical methods were developed in close connection to
linear strip theory? \cite{7505983/UGK6YEVD} has shown that the
separation of viscous and inviscous damping is still valid for a panel
method and Ikeda's method to predict the roll motion for the mentioned
APL China vessel. \cite{7505983/24TNAV5Z} has investigated an even more
advanced method, using a fully nonlinear potential flow method (FNPF)
combined with Watanabe and Inoue (WI) method to predict the viscous
damping for the DTC test case \cite{7505983/BYNJ8CFG}. This FNPF method
is used also in the present paper, but instead of WI method, Ikeda's
method is used. Ikeda's method is believed to be a good method for the
purpose, based on results from a previous comparisons of a large number
of model scale roll decay tests \cite{7505983/QMGQ76Q9}.

The implementation of the proposed hybrid method is introduced in the
next section where the underlying Ikeda's method and FNPF method are
both presented. The implementation of Ikeda's method is also closely
examined and an alternative way to calculate eddy damping is proposed.
In the validation study of the hybrid method, roll decay tests from
model tests are compared with simulations for the KVLCC2 test case. The
roll decay test represents a very simple test case. Both decay and
frequency can be observed, without the presens of external forces from
wind and waves. This gives a good indication of the ship's roll damping
and inertia. A more thurough description of the roll decay test is given
in the Roll decay test section of this paper.

    